
Bayes’ theorem is a way to figure out conditional probability. Conditional probability is the 
probability of an event happening, given that it has some relationship to one or more other 
events. For example, your probability of getting a parking space is connected to the time of 
day you park, where you park, and what conventions are going on at any time. Bayes’ 
theorem is slightly more nuanced. In a nutshell, it gives you the actual probability of an event 
given information about tests. 
“Events” Are different from “tests.” For example, there is a test for liver disease, but that’s 
separate from the event of actually having liver disease.
Tests are flawed: just because you have a positive test does not mean you actually have the 
disease. Many tests have a high false positive rate. Rare events tend to have higher false 
positive rates than more common events. We’re not just talking about medical tests here. For 
example, spam filtering can have high false positive rates. Bayes’ theorem takes the test 
results and calculates your real probability that the test has identified the event.
. In most cases, you can’t just plug numbers into an equation; You have to figure out what 
your “tests” and “events” are first. For two events, A and B, Bayes’ theorem allows you to 
figure out p(A|B) (the probability that event A happened, given that test B was positive) from 
p(B|A) (the probability that test B happened, given that event A happened). It can be a little 
tricky to wrap your head around as technically you’re working backwards; you may have to 
switch your tests and events around, which can get confusing. An example should clarify 
what I mean by “switch the tests and events around.”
Bayes’ Theorem Example #1
You might be interested in finding out a patient’s probability of having liver disease if they 
are an alcoholic. “Being an alcoholic” is the test (kind of like a litmus test) for liver disease.
A could mean the event “Patient has liver disease.” Past data tells you that 10% of patients 
entering your clinic have liver disease. P(A) = 0.10.
B could mean the litmus test that “Patient is an alcoholic.” Five percent of the clinic’s 
patients are alcoholics. P(B) = 0.05.
You might also know that among those patients diagnosed with liver disease, 7% are 
alcoholics. This is your B|A: the probability that a patient is alcoholic, given that they have 
liver disease, is 7%.
Bayes’ theorem tells you: 
P(A|B) = (0.07 * 0.1)/0.05 = 0.14 
In other words, if the patient is an alcoholic, their chances of having liver disease is 0.14 
(14%). This is a large increase from the 10% suggested by past data. But it’s still unlikely 
that any particular patient has liver disease.

